# Dr. Demmelweis and The Discovery of Handwashing

In 1847 the Hungarian physician Ignaz Semmelweis makes a breakthough discovery: He discovers handwashing. Contaminated hands was a major cause of childbed fever and by enforcing handwashing at his hospital he saved hundreds of lives. In this python project we will reanalyze the medical data Semmelweis collected.

## Why Am I Doing This?
After completing The Data Scientist, Data Analyst, and Python Programmer career tracks on DataCamp, I decided to look more into the projects that they offer. This was one of the first I completed and I found the subject very interesting since I am a serial hand washer. This is one of those projects that many people forget to think about, how did our natural tendencies in modern life come about? These types of questions are very fun for me and I love to explore these topics. 

Before diving into the project I read more about [Dr. Semmelweis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ignaz_Semmelweis) and I was very intrigued to move forward with the work. According to Wikipedia: "Despite various publications of results where hand washing reduced mortality to below 1%, Semmelweis's observations conflicted with the established scientific and medical opinions of the time and his ideas were rejected by the medical community. Semmelweis could offer no acceptable scientific explanation for his findings, and some doctors were offended at the suggestion that they should wash their hands and mocked him for it. In 1865, Semmelweis suffered a nervous breakdown and was committed to an asylum, where he died at age 47 of pyaemia, after being beaten by the guards, only 14 days after he was committed. Semmelweis's practice earned widespread acceptance only years after his death, when Louis Pasteur confirmed the germ theory and Joseph Lister, acting on the French microbiologist's research, practiced and operated, using hygienic methods, with great success."

